## Rename Method
### Mechanics
- Check to see whether the method signature is implemented by a superclass or subclass.
If it is, perform these steps for each implementation.
- Declare a new method with the new name. Copy the old body of code over to the new
name and make any alterations to fit.
- Compile.
- Change the body of the old method so that it calls the new one.
    - If you only have a few references, you can reasonably skip this
step.
- Compile and test.
- Find all references to the old method name and change them to refer to the new one.
Compile and test after each change.
- Remove the old method.
    - If the old method is part of the interface and you cannot remove it,
leave it in place and mark it as deprecated.
- Compile and test

## Add Parameter
A method needs more information from its caller.

*Add a parameter for an object that can pass on this information.*

### Mechanics
- Check to see whether this method signature is implemented by a superclass or subclass.
If it is, carry out these steps for each implementation.
- Declare a new method with the added parameter. Copy the old body of code over to the
new method.
    - If you need to add more than one parameter, it is easier to add
them at the same time.
- Compile.
- Change the body of the old method so that it calls the new one.
    - If you only have a few references, you can reasonably skip this
step.
    - You can supply any value for the parameter, but usually you use
null for object parameter and a clearly odd value for built-in types. It's
often a good idea to use something other than zero for numbers so you
can spot this case more easily.
- Compile and test.
- Find all references to the old method and change them to refer to the new one. Compile
and test after each change.
- Remove the old method.
    - If the old method is part of the interface and you cannot remove it,
leave it in place and mark it as deprecated.
- Compile and test.

## Remove Parameter
### Motivation
If some callers already know they are dealing with a certain subclass and doing extra work to find the
parameter or are using knowledge of the class hierarchy to know they can get away with a null,
add an extra method without the parameter. If they do not need to know about which class has
which method, the callers should be left in blissful ignorance

### Mechanics
same with *Add Parameter*

## Separate Query from Modifier
You have a method that returns a value but also changes the state of an object.

*Create two methods, one for the query and one for the modification.*

### Motivation
- clearly signal the difference between methods with side effects and those without.
- A good rule to follow is to say that any method that returns a value should not have
observable side effects.

### Mechanics
- Create a query that returns the same value as the original method.
    - Look in the original method to see what is returned. If the returned
value is a temporary, look at the location of the temp assignment.
- Modify the original method so that it returns the result of a call to the query.
    - Every return in the original method should say return
newQuery() instead of returning anything else.
    - If the method used a temp to with a single assignment to capture
the return value, you should be able to remove it.
- Compile and test.
- For each call, replace the single call to the original method with a call to the query. Add a
call to the original method before the line that calls the query. Compile and test after each
change to a calling method.
- Make the original method have a void return type and remove the return expressions.

### Concurrency Issues
In a multithreaded system, doing test and set operations as a single action is an important idiom.

It is still valuable to have separate query and modifier operations. However, you
need to retain a third method that does both. The query-and-modify operation will call the
separate query and modify methods and be synchronized.

## Parameterize Method
Several methods do similar things but with different values contained in the method body.

*Create one method that uses a parameter for the different valeus.*

### Mechanics

- Create a parameterized method that can be substituted for each repetitive method.
- Compile.
- Replace one old method with a call to the new method.
- Compile and test.
- Repeat for all the methods, testing after each one

You may find that you cannot do this for the whole method, but you can for a fragment of a
method. In this case first extract the fragment into a method, then parameterize that method.

### Examples

```
protected Dollars baseCharge() {
    double result = Math.min(lastUsage(),100) * 0.03;
    if (lastUsage() > 100) {
        result += (Math.min (lastUsage(),200) - 100) * 0.05;
    };
    if (lastUsage() > 200) {
        result += (lastUsage() - 200) * 0.07;
    };
    return new Dollars (result);
}
```

this can be replaced with:

```
protected Dollars baseCharge() {
    double result = usageInRange(0, 100) * 0.03;
    result += usageInRange (100,200) * 0.05;
    result += usageInRange (200, Integer.MAX_VALUE) * 0.07;
    return new Dollars (result);
}
protected int usageInRange(int start, int end) {
    if (lastUsage() > start) return Math.min(lastUsage(),end) - start;
    else return 0;
}
```

## Replace Parameter with Explicit Methods
You have a method that runs different code depending on the values of an enumerated
parameter.

*Create a separate method for each value of the parameter.*

### Motivation
You shouldn't use Replace Parameter with Explicit Methods when the parameter values are likely
to change a lot.If this happens and you are just setting a field to the passed in parameter, use a
simple setter. If you need conditional behavior, you need Replace Conditional with
Polymorphism.

### Mechanics
- Create an explicit method for each value of the parameter.
- For each leg of the conditional, call the appropriate new method.
- Compile and test after changing each leg.
- Replace each caller of the conditional method with a call to the appropriate new method.
- Compile and test.
- When all callers are changed, remove the conditional method.

## Preserve Whole Object
You are getting several values from an object and passing these values as parameters in a
method call.

*Send the whole object instead.*

### Motivation
down side:

- mess up dependency structure: Passing in the required object causes a dependency between the
required object and the called object.
- dependency issue: One value and one object amount to the same thing when you pass them in, at least for clarity's sake.

When you are considering Preserve Whole Object, consider Move Method as an alternative.

### Mechanics
- Create a new parameter for the whole object from which the data comes.
- Compile and test.
- Determine which parameters should be obtained from the whole object
- Take one parameter and replace references to it within the method body by invoking an
appropriate method on the whole object parameter.
- Delete the parameter.
- Compile and test.
- Repeat for each parameter that can be got from the whole object.
- Remove the code in the calling method that obtains the deleted parameters.
    - Unless, of course, the code is using these parameters somewhere else.
- Compile and test.

## Replace Parameter with Method
An object invokes a method, then passes the result as a parameter for a method. The receiver  
can also invoke this method.

*Remove the parameter and let the receiver invoke the method.*

### Motivation
In some cases the parameter may be there for a future parameterization of the method. In this
case I would still get rid of it. Deal with the parameterization when you need it;

exception: this rule only when the resulting change in the interface would have painful
consequences around the whole program, such as a long build or changing of a lot of
embedded code.

### Mechanics
- If necessary, extract the calculation of the parameter into a method.
- Replace references to the parameter in method bodies with references to the method.
- Compile and test after each replacement.
- Use *Remove Parameter* on the parameter.

### Examples【excellent】
## Introduce Parameter Object
You have a group of parameters that naturally go together.

*Replace them with an object.*

### Motivation
Often the bodies of the methods have common manipulations of the parameter values

### Mechanics
- Create a new class to represent the group of parameters you are replacing. Make the
class __immutable__.
- Compile.
- Use *Add Parameter* for the new data clump. Use a null for this parameter in all the
callers.
    - If you have many callers, you can retain the old signature and let it
call the new method. Apply the refactoring on the old method first. You
can then move the callers over one by one and remove the old method
when you're done.
- For each parameter in the data clump, remove the parameter from the signature. Modify
the callers and method body to use the parameter object for that value.
- Compile and test after you remove each parameter.
- When you have removed the parameters, look for behavior that you can move into the
parameter object with Move Method.
    - his may be a whole method or part of a method. If it is part of a
method, use *Extract Method* first and then move the new method over.

## Remove Setting Method
A field should be set at creation time and never altered.

*Remove any setting method for that field.*

### Motivation
make the field final.

### Mechanics
- Check that the setting method is called only in the constructor, or in a method called by
the constructor.
- Modify the constructor to access the variables directly.
    - You cannot do this if you have a subclass setting the private fields
of a superclass. In this case you should try to provide a protected
superclass method (ideally a constructor) to set these values. Whatever
you do, don't give the superclass method a name that will confuse it with
a setting method.
- Compile and test.
- Remove the setting method and make the field final.
- Compile.

## Hide Method
A method is not used by any other class.

*Make the method private.*

### Mechanics
- Check regularly for opportunities to make a method more private.
    - Use a lint-style tool, do manual checks every so often, and check
when you remove a call to a method in another class.
    - Particularly look for cases such as this with setting methods
- Make each method as private as you can.
- Compile after doing a group of hidings.
- The compiler checks this naturally, so you don't need to compile
with each change. If one goes wrong, it is easy to spot.

## Replace Constructor with Factory Method
You want to do more than simple construction when you create an object.

*Replace the constructor with a factory method.*

### Motivation
The most obvious motivation for *Replace Constructor with Factory Method* comes with replacing
a type code with subclassing.

Factory methods are essential for *Change Value to Reference*.

### Mechanics
- Create a factory method. Make its body a call to the current constructor.
- Replace all calls to the constructor with calls to the factory method.
- Compile and test after each replacement.
- Declare the constructor private.
- Compile.

## Encapsulate Downcast
A method returns an object that needs to be downcasted by its callers.

*Move the downcast to within the method.*

### Mechanics
- Look for cases in which you have to downcast the result from calling a method.
    - These cases often appear with methods that return a collection or
iterator.
- Move the downcast into the method.
    - With methods that return collections, use Encapsulate
Collection.

## Replace Error Code with Exception
A method returns a special code to indicate an error.

*Throw an exception instead.*

### Motivation
Exceptions separate normal processing from error processing.

### Mechanics
- Decide whether the exception should be checked or unchecked.
    - If the caller is responsible for testing the condition before calling,
make the exception unchecked.
    - If the exception is checked, either create a new exception or use
an existing one.
- Find all the callers and adjust them to use the exception.
    - If the exception is unchecked, adjust the callers to make the
appropriate check before calling the method. Compile and test after each
such change.
    - If the exception is checked, adjust the callers to call the method in
a try block.
- Change the signature of the method to reflect the new usage.

If you have many callers, this can be too big a change. You can make it more gradual with the
following steps:

- Decide whether the exception should be checked or unchecked.
- Create a new method that uses the exception.
- Modify the body of the old method to call the new method.
- Compile and test.
- Adjust each caller of the old method to call the new method. Compile and test after each
change.
- Delete the old method.

### Examples
whether it is the responsibility of the caller to test the parameter before function or
whether it is the responsibility of the function routine to make the check.

## Replace Exception with Test
You are throwing a checked exception on a condition the caller could have checked first.

*Change the caller to make the test first.*

### Motivation
Exceptions should not act as a substitute for conditional tests.

### Mechanics
- Put a test up front and copy the code from the catch block into the appropriate leg of the
if statement.
- Add an assertion to the catch block to notify you whether the catch block is executed.
- Compile and test.
- Remove the catch block and the try block if there are no other catch blocks.
- Compile and test.
