## Pull Up Field
Two subclasses have the same field.
*Move the field to the superclass*

### Mechanics
- Inspect all uses of the candidate fields to ensure they are used in the same way.
- If the fields do not have the same name, rename the fields so that they have the name
you want to use for the superclass field.
- Compile and test.
- Create a new field in the superclass.
    - If the fields are private, you will need to protect the superclass field
so that the subclasses can refer to it.
- Delete the subclass fields.
- Compile and test.
- Consider using *Self Encapsulate Field* on the new field.

## Pull Up Method
You have methods with identical results on subclasses.

*Move them to the superclass*

### Mechanics
- Inspect the methods to ensure they are identical.
    - If the methods look like they do the same thing but are not
identical, use *algorithm substitution* on one of them to make them
identical.
- If the methods have different signatures, change the signatures to the one you want to
use in the superclass.
- Create a new method in the superclass, copy the body of one of the methods to it, adjust,
and compile.
    - If you are in a strongly typed language and the method calls
another method that is present on both subclasses but not the
superclass, declare an abstract method on the superclass.
    - If the method uses a subclass field, use *Pull Up Field* or *Self
Encapsulate Field* and declare and use an abstract getting method.
- Delete one subclass method.
- Compile and test.
- Keep deleting subclass methods and testing until only the superclass method remains.
- Take a look at the callers of this method to see whether you can change a required type
to the superclass.

## Pull Up Constructor Body
You have constructors on subclasses with mostly identical bodies.

*Create a superclass constructor; call this from the subclass methods.*

### Mechanics
- Define a superclass constructor.
- Move the common code at the beginning from the subclass to the superclass constructor.
    - This may be all the code.
    - Try to move common code to the beginning of the constructor.
- Call the superclass constructor as the first step in the subclass constructor.
    - If all the code is common, this will be the only line of the subclass
constructor.
- Compile and test.
    - If there is any common code later, use *Extract Method* to factor
out common code and use *Pull Up Method* to pull it up.

## Push Down Method
Behavior on a superclass is relevant only for some of its subclasses.

*Move it to those subclasses.*

### Mechanics
-  Declare a method in all subclasses and copy the body into each subclass.
    - You may need to declare fields as protected for the method to
access them. Usually you do this if you intend to push down the field
later. Otherwise use an accessor on the superclass. If this accessor is
not public, you need to declare it as protected.
- Remove method from superclass.
    - You may have to change callers to use the subclass in variable
and parameter declarations.
    - If it makes sense to access the method through a superclass
variable, you don't intend to remove the method from any subclasses,
and the superclass is abstract, you can declare the method as abstract,
in the superclass.
- Compile and test.
- Remove the method from each subclass that does not need it.
- Compile and test.

## Push Down Field
A Field is used only by some subclasses.

*Move the field to those subclasses.*

### Mechanics
- Declare the field in all subclasses.
- Remove the field from the superclass.
- Compile and test.
- Remove the field from all subclasses that don't need it.
- Compile and test.

## Extract Subclass
A class has features that are used only in some instances.

Create a subclass for that subset of features.

### Mechanics
- Define a new subclass of the source class.
- Provide constructors for the new subclass.
    - In the simple cases, copy the arguments of the superclass and call
the superclass constructor with super.
    - If you want to hide the use of the subclass from clients, you can
use Replace Constructor with Factory Method.
- Find all calls to constructors of the superclass. If they need the subclass, replace with a
call to the new constructor.
    - If the subclass constructor needs different arguments, use
*Rename Method* to change it. If some of the constructor parameters of
the superclass are no longer needed, use *Rename Method* on that too.
    - If the superclass can no longer be directly instantiated, declare it
abstract.
- One by one use *Push Down Method* and *Push Down Field* to move features onto the
subclass.
    - Unlike *Extract Class* it usually is easier to work with the methods
first and the data last.
    - When a public method is pushed, you may need to redefine a
caller's variable or parameter type to call the new method. The compiler
will catch these cases.
- Look for any field that designates information now indicated by the hierarchy (usually a
boolean or type code). Eliminate it by using *Self Encapsulate Field* and replacing the
getter with polymorphic constant methods. All users of this field should be refactored with
*Replace Conditional with Polymorphism*.
    - For any methods outside the class that use an accessor, consider
using *Move Method* to move the method into this class; then use
*Replace Conditional with Polymorphism*.
- Compile and test after each push down.

## Extract Superclass
You have two classes with similar features.

*Create a superclass and move the common features to the superclass.*

### Mechanics
- Create a blank abstract superclass; make the original classes subclasses of this
superclass.
- One by one, use *Pull Up Field*, *Pull Up Method*, and *Pull Up Constructor* Body to
move common elements to the superclass.
    - It's usually easier to move the fields first.
    - If you have subclass methods that have different signatures but the
same purpose, use *Rename Method* to get them to the same name
and then use *Pull Up Method*.
    - If you have methods with different bodies that do the same thing,
you may try using Substitute Algorithm to copy one body into the
other. If this works, you can then use Pull Up Method.
    - If you have methods with different bodies that do the same thing,
you may try using *Substitute Algorithm* to copy one body into the
other. If this works, you can then use *Pull Up Method*.
- Compile and test after each pull.
- Examine the methods left on the subclasses. See if there are common parts, if there are
you can use *Extract Method* followed by *Pull Up Method* on the common parts. If the
overall flow is similar, you may be able to use *Form Template Method*.
- After pulling up all the common elements, check each client of the subclasses. If they use
only the common interface you can change the required type to the superclass.

## Extract Interface
Several clients use the same subset of a class's interface, or two classes have part of their interfaces in common.

*Extract the subset into an interface.*

### Mechanics
- Create a empty interface.
- Declare the common operations in the interface.
- Declare the relevant class(es) as implementing the interface.
- Adjust client type declarations to use the interface.

## Collapse Hierarchy
A superclass and subclass are not very different.

*Merge them together.*

### Mechanics
- Choose which class is going to be removed: the superclass or the subclasses.
- Use *Pull Up Field* and *Pull Up Method* or *Push Down Method* and *Push Down Field*
to move all the behavior and data of the removed class to the class with which it is being
merged.
- Compile and test with each move.
- Adjust references to the class that will be removed to use the merged class. This will
affect variable declarations, parameter types, and constructors.
- Remove the empty class.
- Compile and test.

## Form Template Method
You have two methods in subclasses that perform similar steps in the same order, yet the steps
are different.

*Get the steps into methods with the same signature, so that the original methods become the
same. Then you can pull them up.*

### Motivation
In this case we can move the sequence to the superclass and allow polymorphism to play its
role in ensuring the different steps do their things differently. This kind of method is
called a *template method*.

### Mechanics
- Decompose the methods so that all the extracted methods are either identical or
completely different.
- Use *Pull Up Method* to pull the identical methods into the superclass.
- For the different methods use *Rename Method* so the signatures for all the methods at
each step are the same
    - This makes the original methods the same in that they all issue the
same set of method calls, but the subclasses handle the calls differently.
- Compile and test after each signature change.
- Use *Pull Up Method* on one of the original methods. Define the signatures of the
different methods as abstract methods on the superclass.
- Compile and test.
- Remove the other methods, compile, and test after each removal.

## Replace Inheritance with Delegation
A subclass uses only part of a superclass interface or does not want to inherit data.

*Create a field for the superclass, adjust methods to delegate to the superclass, and remove the
subclassing.*

### Mechanics
- Create a field in the subclass that refers to an instance of the superclass. Initialize it to
this.
- Change each method defined in the subclass to use the delegate field. Compile and test
after changing each method.
    - You won't be able to replace any methods that invoke a method on
super that is defined on the subclass, or they may get into an infinite
recurse. These methods can be replaced only after you have broken the
inheritance.
- Remove the subclass declaration and replace the delegate assignment with an
assignment to a new object.
- For each superclass method used by a client, add a simple delegating method.
- Compile and test.

## Replace Delegation with Inheritance
You're using delegation and are often writing many simple delegations for the entire interface.

*Make the delegating class a subclass of the delegate.*

### Motivation
shouldn't use Replace Delegation with Inheritance:

- If you aren't using all the methods of the class to
which you are delegating, you shouldn't use Replace Delegation with Inheritance
-  the delegate is shared by more than one object and is mutable.

### Mechanics
- Make the delegating object a subclass of the delegate.
- Compile.
    - You may get some method clashes at this point; methods may
have the same name but vary in return type, exceptions, or visibility. Use
Rename Method to fix these.
- Set the delegate field to be the object itself.
- Remove the simple delegation methods.
- Compile and test.
- Replace all other delegations with calls to the object itself.
- Remove the delegate field.
