## Tease Apart Inheritance
You have an inheritance hierarchy that is doing two jobs at once.

*Create two hierarchies and use delegation to invoke one from the other.*

### Mechanics
- Identify the different jobs being done by the hierarchy. Create a two-dimensional grid (or
three- or four-dimensional, if your hierarchy is a real mess and you have some really cool
graph paper) and label the axes with the different jobs. We assume two or more
dimensions require repeated applications of this refactoring (one at a time, of course).
- Decide which job is more important and is to be retained in the current hierarchy and
which is to be moved to another hierarchy.
- Use *Extract Class*  at the common superclass to create an object for the
subsidiary job and add an instance variable to hold this object.
- Create subclasses of the extracted object for each of the subclasses in the original
hierarchy. Initialize the instance variable created in the previous step to an instance of
this subclass.
- Use *Move Method* in each of the subclasses to move the behavior in the
subclass to the extracted object.
- When the subclass has no more code, eliminate it.

## Convert Procedural Design to Objects
You have code written in a procedural style.

*Turn the data records into objects, break up the behavior, and move the behavior to the objects.*

### Mechanics
- Take each record type and turn it into a dumb data object with accessors.
    - If you have a relational database, take each table and turn it into a
dumb data object.
- Take all the procedural code and put it into a single class.
    - You can either make the class a singleton (for ease of
reinitialization) or make the methods static.
- Take each long procedural and apply *Extract Method* and the related refactorings to
break it down. As you break down the procedurals, use *Move Method* to move each one
to the appropriate dumb data class.
- Continue until you've removed all the behavior away from the original class. If the original
class was a purely procedural class, it's very gratifying to delete it.

## Separate Domain from Presentation
You have GUI classes that contain domain logic.

*Separate the domain logic into separate domain classes.*

### Mechanics
- Create a domain class for each window.
- If you have a grid, create a class to represent the rows on the grid. Use a collection on
the domain class for the window to hold the row domain objects.
- Examine the data on the window. If it is used only for user interface purposes, leave it on
the window. If it is used within the domain logic but is not actually displayed on the
window, use Move Method to move it to the domain object. If it is used by both the user
interface and the domain logic, use Duplicate Observed Data so that it is in both
places and kept in sync.
- Examine the logic in the presentation class. Use Extract Method to separate logic about
the presentation from domain logic. As you isolate the domain logic, use Move Method
to move it to the domain object.
- When you are finished, you will have presentation classes that handle the GUI and
domain objects that contain all the business logic. The domain objects will not be well
factored, but further refactorings will deal with that.

## Extract Hierarchy

