### 2.Definition
Refactoring
- (noun)a change made to the internal structure of software to make it easier to understand and cheaper to modify without changing its observable behavior.
- (verb)to restructure software by applying a series of refactorings without changing its observable behavior.


> I'm not a great programmer;
> I'm just a good programmer with great habits.

#### When Should You Refactor?
- the rule of three
- refactor when you add function
- refactor when you need to fix a bug
- refactor as you do a code review
```
Three strikes and you refactor.
```
#### Problems with Refactoring
- databases: place a separate layer of software between your object model and your database model.
- changing interfaces:
    - change published interfaces
    - retain both the old interface and the new one. try to do this so that the old interface calls the new interface.
    ```
        Don't publish interfaces prematurely. 
        Modify your code ownership policies to smooth refactoring.
    ```
    - design Changes That Are Difficult to Refacto
- When Shouldn't You Refactor?
    - case 1: when You may discover this only by trying to test it and discovering that the code is so full of bugs that you cannot stablilize it.
        - solution1: rewrite.
        - solution2: A compromise route is to refactor a large piece of software into components with strong encapsulation.
    - case 2: when you should avoid refactoring is when you are close to a deadline.
        ```unfinished refactoring as going into debt. ```
- Refactoring and Performance(todo)
    - writing fast software: (hard real-time systems)
        - In this situation, as you decompose the design you give each component a budget for resources—time and footprint.
        - That component must not exceed its budget, although a mechanism for exchanging budgeted times is allowed.
    - constant attention approach(not suggested):
    - you build your program in a well-factored manner without paying attention to performance until you begin a performance optimization stage.

### 3. Bad Smells in Code
- Duplicated Code
    - when you have the same expression in two methods of the same class.
    - when you have the same expression in two sibling subclasses.
    - duplicated code in two unrelated classes
- Long Method
    - named after the intention of the code rather than how it does it.
    - How do you identify the clumps of code to extract? To look for comments.
    - The key here is not method length but the semantic distance between what the method does and how it does it.
- Large Class
- Long Parameter List
- Divergent Changes
- Shotgun Surgery
- Feature Envy
> Divergent change is one class that suffers many kinds of changes, and shotgun surgery is one change that alters many classes.
- Data Clumps
- Primitive Obsession
- Switch Statement(之前写的支付网关有问题)
    - duplication, can be replaced by polymorphism.
- Parallel Inheritance Hierarchies
    - a special case of shotgun surgery
    - every time you make a subclass of one class, you also have to make a subclass of another.
    - general strategy : make sure that instances of one hierarchy refer to instances of the other.
- Lazy Class
    - a class that used to pay its way but has been downsized with refactoring.
    - solution: Collapse Hierarchy.
    - nearly useless components should be subjected to Inline Class.
- Speculative Generality
    - If you have abstract classes that aren't doing much: Collapse Hierarchy.
    - Unnecessary delegation: can be removed Inline Class.
    - Methods with unused parameters: Remove Parameter.
    - Methods named with odd abstract names: Rename Method.
    - If you have a method or class that is a helper for a test case that exercises legitimate functionality, you have to leave it in.
- Temporary Field
    - extract Class for the poor orphan variables.
- Message Chains
    - Hide Delegate: [liyue: cannot understand]
- Middle Man
    - Remove Middle Man.
    - only a few methods aren't doing much: Inline Method.
    - there is additional behavior: Replace Delegation with Inheritance(turn the middle man 
    into a subclass of the real object).
- Inappropriate Intimacy
    - Change Bidirectional Association to Unidirectional.
    - classes do have the common interests: Extract Class to put the commonality in a safe place.
    - use **Hide Delegate** let another class act as go-between.
    - Replace Delegation with Inheritance
- Alternative Classes with Different Interfaces(不懂)
- Incomplete Library Class
    - If there are just a couple of methods that you wish the library class had: Introduce Foreign Method
    - If there is a whole load of extra behavior, you need Introduce Local Extension.
- Data Class
    - Encapsulate Fields
    - if have collection fields, check to see whether they are properly encapsulated and apply **Encapsulate Collection**
    if they aren't.
    - Use Remove Setting Method on any field that should not be changed.
    - Try to use Move Method to move behavior into the data class. 
    - If you can't move a whole method, use Extract Method to create a method that can be moved.
    After a while you can start using Hide Method on the getters and setters.
- Refused Bequest
    - 【not suggested】create a new sibling class and use **Push Down Method** and Push Down Field to push 
    all the unused methods to the sibling.
    - if the subclass is reusing behavior but does not want to support the interface of the superclass: **Replace Inheritance with Delegation**
- Comments
    - if you need to state some rules about the required state of the system, use **Introduce Assertion**.
    - situation:
        - when you don't know what to do.
        - describe what is going on, comments can indicate areas in which you aren't sure.
        - describe why you did something.

        ```
            When you feel the need to write a comment, first try to refactor the code
            so that any comment becomes superfluous.
        ```

> what's a type code、Null Object

### 4. Building Tests
add the tests immediately after writing a bit of function.

#### write test first
pros:

- you are asking yourself what needs to be done to add the function.
- concentrates on the interface rather than the implementation.
- a clear point at which you are done coding—when the test works.

```
But often when I'm working with people on refactoring,
we have a body of non-self-testing code to work on.
So first we have to make the code self-testing
before we refactor.
```

```
When funcatinal testers, or useres, find a bug in the software, at least two things are needed to fix it.
- change the production code to remove the bug.
- add a unit test that exposes the bug.
```

- test the areas that you are most worried about going wrong.
    - it is better to spend a reasonable time to catch most bugs than to spend ages trying to catch them all.
- Think of the boundary conditions under which things might go wrong and concentrate your tests there.
- Don't forget to test that exceptions are raised when things are expected to go wrong.
- A difference between test code and production code is that it is okay to copy and edit test code.

> Tip:
> It's better to write and run incomplete tests than not to run complete tests.

### 5. Toward a Catalog of Refactorings
###### five parts
1. name
2. summary
3. motivation
4. mechanics
5. examples

