### 6. Composing Methods
- Extract Method
    - extract methods need to return more than one variables.
    > to pick different code to extract.
    > prefer a method to return one value.
- Inline Method
    - you have a group of methods that seem badly factored.
    > inline the all into one big method and then reextract the methods.
- Inline Temp
- Replace Temp with Query
- Introduce Explaining Variable
    - Put the result of the expression, or parts of the expression, in a temporary variable with a name.
    - when local variables make it difficult to use Extract Method. That's when I use *Introduce Explaining Variable*
- Split Temporary Variable
    - Variable with more than one responsibility should be replaced with a temp for each responsibility.
- Remove Assignments to Parameters
    - Pass By Value in Java
- Replace Method with Method Object
    - turn all these local variables into fields on the method object，then use Extract Method on this new object.
    - Mechanics
        - Create a new class, name it after the method.
        - Give the new class a final field for the object that hosts the original method(the source
            object) and a field for each temporary variable and each parameter in the method.
        - Give the new class a constructor that takes the source object and each parameter.
        - Give the new class a method named "compute".
        - Copy the body of the original method into compute. Use the source object field for any
            invocations of methods on the original object.
        - Compile
        - Replace the old method with one that creates the new object and calls compute.

- Substitute Algorithm
    - If the results aren't the same, use the old algorithm for comparision in testing and debugging.
