# 7. Moving Feature Between Objects
### Move Method
- Examine all features used by the source method that are defined on the source class.
Consider whether they also should be moved.
    - if a feature is used only by the method you are about to move, you might as well move it too.
    if the feature is used by other methods, consider moving them as well. Sometimes it is easier to move
    a clutch of methods than to move them one at a time.
- Check the sub- and superclasses of the source class for other declarations of the method.
    - there are any other declarations, you may not be able to make
    the move, unless the polymorphism can also be expressed on the target.
- Declare the method in the target class.
    - You may choose to use a different name, one that makeds more sense in the target class.
- Copy the code from the source method to the target. Adjust the method to make it work in its new home.
    - If the method uses its source, you need to determine how to reference the source object from the target method.
    If there is no mechanism in the target class, pass the source object reference to the new method as a parameter.
    - If the method includes exception handlers, decide which class should logically handle the exception.
    If the source class should be responsible, leave the handlers behind.
- Determine how to reference the correct target object from the source.
- decide whether to remove the source method or retain it as a delegating method.
- if you remove the source method, replace all the references with references to the target method.

### Move Field
- If the field is public, use Encapsulate Field.
    - If you are likely to be moving the methods that access it frequently
    or if a lot of methods access the field, you may find it useful to use **Self Encapsulate Field**
- Determine how to reference the target object from the source.
- Remove the field on the source class.
- Replace all references to the source field with references to the appropriate method on the target.
    - If the field is not private, look in all the subclasses of the source for references.
#### Self-Encapsulation
Self Encapsulate Field.
```
class Account {
    private AccountType _type;

    double interestForAmountAndDays (double amount, int days) {
        return getInterestRate() * amount * days / 365;
    }
    private void setInterestRate(double arg) {
        _type.setInterestRate(arg);
    }
    private double setInterestRate() {
        _type.getInterestRate();
    }
}
```
### Extract Class
- sign
    - try to remove a piece of data or a method.
    - what other fields and method would become nonsense.
    - trouble when the class is subtyped
- Mechanics
    - decide how to split the responsibility of the class.
    - Create a new class to express the split-off responsibilities.
    - Make a link from the old to the new class.
    - Use *Move Field* on each field you wish to move.
    - Use *Move Method* to move methods over from old to new. Start with lower-level methods(called rather than calling) and build to the higher level.
    - Compile and test after each move.
    - Review and reduce the interfaces of each class.
    - Decide whether to express the new class. If you do expose the class,
    - decide whether to expose it as a references object or as an immutable value object.
        - Reference Object: make the telephone number as a reference object.
        - an immutable interface for the telephone number.
        - clone the telephone number before passing it out.
- a common technique: improve the liveness of a concurrent program.

### Inline Class
- Move all its features into another class and delete it.

### Hide Delegate
A client is calling a delegate class of an object.
#### Mechanics
- For each method on the delegate, create a simple delegating method on the server.
- Adjust the client to call the server.
- If no client needs to access the delegate anymore, remove the server's accessor for the delegate.

### Remove Middle Man
#### Mechanics
- create an accessor for the delegate.
- For each client use of a delegate method, remove the method from the server and
replace the call in the client to call method on the delegate.
### Introduce Foreign Method
##### Motivation
you can't change the source of these great services, you have to code around
the lack of the method in the client.
##### Mechanics
- Create a method in the client class that does what you need.
    - The method should not access any of the features of the client
    class. If it needs a value, send it in as a parameter.
- Make an instance of the server class the first parameter.
- Comment the method as "foreign method; should be in server."
    - This way you can use a text search to find foreign methods later if
    you get the chance to move the method.
### Introduce Local Extension
#### Motivation
A server class you are using needs several additional methods, but you can't modify the class.

Create a new class that contains these extra methods. Make this extension class a subclass or a
wrapper of the original.

In choosing between subclass and wrapper, I usually prefer the subclass because it is less work.
```
Subclassing forces me to create a new object of that subclass. If other objects refer to the
old one, I have two objects with the original's data. But if the original can change, there is a problem, because
changes in one object won't change the other and I have to use a wrapper.
```
#### Mechanics
- Create an extension class either as a subclass or a wrapper of the original.
- Add converting constructors to the extension
    - A constructor takes the original as an argument. The subclass
    version calls an appropriate superclass constructor; the wrapper version
    sets the delegate field to the argument
- Add new features to the extension
- Replace the original with the extension where needed.
- Move any foreign methods defined for this class onto the extension.
#### Example: using wrapper
A particular problem with using wrappers is how to deal with methods that take an original as argument.
Because can't alter the original, I can only do after in one direction.

The problem lies in certain system methods, such as equals.
For equality tests this means a new method name.

I usually don't do override methods with extensions; I usually just add methods.
