# 8.Organizing Data
### Self Encapsulate Field
Create getting and setting methods for the field and use only those to access the field.
Instead of accessing a field directly.

#### Motivation
- two schools of thought
    - direct variable access
    - even within the class, you should always use accessors

#### Mechanics
- Create a getting and setting method for the field.
- Find all references to the field and replace them with a getting or setting method.
    - Replace accesses to the field with a call to the getting method;
    replace assignments with a call to the setting method
    - You can get the compiler to help you check by temporarily renaming the field.
- Make the field private.
- Double check that you have caught all references.

### Replace Data value with Object
You have a data item that needs additional data or behavior.
*Turn the data item into an object*

#### Mechanics
- Create the class for the value. Give it a final field of the same type as the value in the
- source class. Add a getter and a constructor that takes the field as an argument.
- Compile.
- Change the type of the field in the source class to the new class.
- Change the getter in the source class to call the getter in the new class.
- If the field is mentioned in the source class constructor, assign the field using the
    constructor of the new class.
- Change the getting method to create a new instance of the new class.

#### Examples
As a rule value objects should be immutable.

### Change Value to Reference(Unknown)
You have a class with many equal instances that you want to replace with a single object.

*Turn the object into a reference object.*

#### Mechanics
- Use **Replace Constructor with Factory Method**
- Compile and test
- Decide what object is reponsible for providing access to the objects.
    - This may be a static dictionary or a registry object.
    -  You may have more than one object that acts as an access point
    for the new object.
- Decide whether the objects are precreated or created on the fly.
    - If the objects are precreated and you are retrieving them from
    memory, you need to ensure they are loaded before they are needed.
- Alter the factory method to return the reference object.
    - If the objects are precomputed, you need to decide how to handle
    errors if someone asks for an object that does not exist.
    - You may want to use **Rename Method** on the factory to convery
    that it returns an existing object.

### Change Reference to Value
You have a reference object that is small, immutable, and awkward to manange.
*Turn it into a value object.*

#### Motivation
The memory links also can be awkward. Value objects are particularly useful
for distributed and concurrent systems.

#### Mechanics
- Check that the candidate object is immutable or can become immutable.
    - If the object isn't currently immutable, use *Remove Setting Method* util it is.
    - If the candidate cannot become immutable, you should abandon this refactoring.
- Create an equals method and a hash method.
- compile and test.
- Consider removing an factory method and making a constructor public.
```
after get rid of all the controller behavior on the class and the factory method
and just use the constructor, which I can now make public.
```

### Replace Array with Object
You have an array in which certain elements mean different things.
*Replace the array with an object that has a field for each element.*

#### Motivation
Arrays: should be used only to contain a collection of similar objects in some order.

#### Mechanics
- Create a new class to represent the information in the array. Give it a public field for the array.
- Change all users of the array to use the new class.
- Compile and test.
- One by one, add getters and setters for each element of the array. Name the accessors
after the purpose of the array element. Change the clients to use the accessors. Compile
and test after each change.
- When all array accesses are replaced by methods, make the array private.
- Compile.
- For each element of the array, create a field in the class and change the accessors to
use the field.
- Compile and test after each element is changed.
- When all elements have been replaced with fields, delete the array.

### Duplicate Observed Data
You have domain data available only in a GUI control, and domain methods need access.
*Copy the data to a domain object. Set up an observer to synchronize the two pieces of data.*

#### Motivation
separates code that handles the user interface from code that handles the business logic.

#### Mechanics
- Make the presentation class an observer of the domain class.
    - If there is no domain class yet, create one.d
    - If there is no link from the presentation class to the domain class,
    put the domain class in a fiedl fo the presentation class.
- Use *Self Encapsulate Field* on the domain data within the GUI class.
- Compile and test.
- *Add a call to the setting method in the event handler to update the component with its current value using direct access.*
    - Put a method in the event handler that updates the value of the component on the basis of its current value.
    Of course this is completely unnecessary; your are just setting the value of its current value, but by using
    the setting method, you allow any behavior there to execute.
    - When you make this change, don't use the getting method for the component; use direct access to component.
    Later the getting method will pull the value from the domain, which does not change util setting method executes.
    - Make sure the event-handling mechanism is triggered by the test code.
- Compile and test.
- Define the data and accessor methods in the domain class.
    - Make sure the setting method on the domain triggers the notify mechanism in the observer pattern.
    - Use the same data type in the domain as is on the presentation(usually a string).
    Convert the data type in a later refactoring.
- Redirect the accessors to write to the domain field.
- Modify the observer's update method update the data from the domain field to the GUI control.
- Compile and test.

#### Using Event Listeners

### Change Unidirectional Association to Bidirectional
#### Motivation
You have two classes that need to use each other's features, but there is only a one-way link.
Add back pointers, and change modifiers to update both sets

#### Mechanics
- Add a field for the back pointer.
- Decide which class will control the association.
- Create a helper method on the noncontrolling side of the association. Name this method
    to clearly indicate its restricted use.
- If the existing modifier is on the controlling side, modify it to update the back pointers.
- If the existing modifier is on the controlled side, create a controlling method on the
    controlling side and call it from the existing modifier.

#### Example
1. If both objects are reference objects and the association is one to many, then the object
that has the one reference is the controller. (That is, if one customer has many orders,
the order controls the association.)
2. If one object is a component of the other, the composite should control the association.
3. If both objects are reference objects and the association is many to many, it doesn't
matter whether the order or the customer controls the association

### Change Bidirectional Association to Unidirectional
*drop the unneeded end of the Association*
interdependencies lead to a highly coupled system.

#### Mechanics
- Examine all the readers of the field that holds the pointer that you wish to remove to see
whether the removal is feasible.
    - Look at direct readers and further methods that call the methods
    - Consider whether it is possible to determine the other object
without using the pointer. If so you will be able to use Substitute
Algorithm on the getter to allow clients to use the getting method even if
there is no pointer
- If clients need to use the getter, use *Self Encapsulate Field*, carry out *Substitute
Algorithm* on the getter, compile, and test.
- If clients don't need the getter, change each user of the field so that it gets the object in
the field another way. Compile and test after each change.
- When no reader is left in the field, remove all updates to the field, and remove the field.
- If there are many places that assign the field, use Self
Encapsulate Field so that they all use a single setter. Compile and test.
Change the setter to have an empty body. Compile and test. If that
works, remove the field, the setter, and all calls to the setter.

#### Examples
The most difficult part of this refactoring is checking that I can do it.

### Replace Magic Number with Symbolic Constant
*create a constant, name it after the meaning, and replace the number with it.*

#### Motivation
- If the magic number is a type code, consider **Replace Type code with Class**.
- If the magic number is the length of an array, use anArray.length instead
when you are looping through the array.

#### Mechanics
- Declare a constant and set it to the value of the magic number.
- Find all occurrences of the magic number.
- See whether the magic number matches the usage of the constant; if it does, change the
magic number to use the constant.
- Compile.
- When all magic numbers are changed, compile and test. At this point all should work as if
nothing has been changed.
    - A good test is to see whether you can change the constant easily.  
This may mean altering some expected results to match the new value.  
This isn't always possible, but it is a good trick when it works.  

### Encapsulate Field
There is a public field.
*Make it private and provide accessors*

#### Motivation
One of the principal tenets of object orientation is encapsulation, or data hiding

#### Mechanics
- Create getting and setting methods for the field.
- Find all clients outside the class that reference the field. If the client uses the value,
replace the reference with a call to the getting method. If the client changes the value,
replace the reference with a call to the setting method.
    - If the field is an object and the client invokes a modifier on the
object, that is a use. Only use the setting method to replace an
assignment
- Compile and test after each change.
- Once all clients are changed, declare the field as private.
- Compile and test.

### Encapsulate Collection
A method returns a collection.
*Make it return a read-only view and provice add/remove methods.*

#### Motivation
The getter should not return the collection object itself, because that allows clients to manipulate the  
contents of the collection without the owning class's knowing what is going on.

#### Mechanics
- Add an add and remove method for the collection.
- Initialize the field to an empty collection.
- Compile.
- Find callers of the setting method. Either modify the setting method to use the add and
remove operations or have the clients call those operations instead.
    - Setters are used in two cases: when the collection is empty and
when the setter is replacing a nonempty collection.
    - You may wish to use Rename Method to rename the setter.
Change it from set to initialize or replace.
- Compile and test.
- Find all users of the getter that modify the collection. Change them to use the add and
remove methods. Compile and test after each change.
- When all uses of the getter that modify have been changed, modify the getter to return a
read-only view of the collection.
    - In Java 2, this is the appropriate unmodifiable collection view.
- Compile and test.
- Find the users of the getter. Look for code that should be on the host object. Use Extract
Method and Move Method to move the code to the host object.

#### Examples
```
public Set getCourses() {
    return Collections.unmodifiableSet(_courses);
}
```

#### Moving Behavior into the Class
#### Example: Encapsulating Arrays
- change arrays into collections
- replace the array with a list

### Replace Record with Data Class
interface with a record structure in a traditional programming environment.

*Make a dumb data object for the record*

#### Mechanics
- Create a class to represent the record
- Give the class a private field with a getting method and a setting method for each data item.

### Replace Type Code with Class
A Class has a numeric type code that does not affect its behavior.

*Replace the number with a new class*

- Replace Conditional with Polymorphism
- Replace Type Code with Subclasses
- Replace Type Code with State/Strategy

#### Mechanics
- Create a new class for the type code.
    - The class needs a code field that matches the type code and a
getting method for this value. It should have static variables for the
allowable instances of the class and a static method that returns the
appropriate instance from an argument based on the original code.
- Modify the implementation of the source class to use the new class.
    - Maintain the old code-based interface, but change the static fields
to use new class to generate the codes. Alter the other code-based
methods to get the code numbers from the new class.
- Compile and test
    - At this point the new class can do run-time checking of the codes.
- For each method on the source class that uses the code, create a new method that uses
the new class instead.
    - Methods that use the code as an argument need new methods that
use an instance of the new class as an argument. Methods that return a
code need a new method that returns the code. It is often wise to use
Rename Method on an old accessor before creating a new one to
make the program clearer when it is using an old code.
- One by one, change the clients of the source class so that they use the new interface.
- Compile and test after each client is updated.
    - You may need to alter several methods before you have enough
consistency to compile and test.
- Remove the old interface that uses the codes, and remove the static declarations of the
codes.
- Compile and test.

### Replace Type Code with Subclasses
You have an immutable type code that affects the behavior of a class.
*Replace the type code with Subclasses*

#### Motivation
cases can't do this:
- the value of the type code changes after the object is created.
- the class with the type code is already subclassed for another reason.

#### Mechanics
- Self-encapsulate the type code.
    - If the type code is passed into the constructor, you need to *replace
the constructor with a factory method*.
- For each value of the type code, create a subclass, Override the getting method of the
type code in the subclass to return the relevant value.
    - This value is hard coded into the return (e.g., return 1). This
looks messy, but it is a temporary measure until all case statements
have been replaced
- Compile and test after replacing each type code value with a subclass.
- Remove the type code field from the superclass. Declare the accessors for the type code
as abstract.
- Compile and test

### Replace Type Code with State/Strategy
You have a type code that affects the behavior of a class, but you cannot use subclassing.
*Replace the type code with a state object.*

#### Motivation
- If you are trying to simplify a single algorithm with Replace Conditional with Polymorphism,
strategy is the better term.
- If you are going to move state-specific data and you think of the object as changing state,
use the state pattern.

#### Mechanics
- Self-encapsulate the type code.
- Create a new class, and name it after the purpose of the type code. This is the state
object.
- Add subclasses of the state object, one for each type code.
    - It is easier to add the subclasses all at once, rather than one at a
time.
- Create an abstract query in the state object to return the type code. Create overriding
queries of each state object subclass to return the correct type code.
- Compile.
- Create a field in the old class for the new state object.
- Adjust the type code query on the original class to delegate to the state object.
- Adjust the type code setting methods on the original class to assign an instance of the
appropriate state object subclass.
- Compile and test.

### Replace Subclass with Fields
You have subclasses that vary only in methods that return constant data.
*Change the methods to superclass fields and eliminate the subclasses.*

#### Mechanics
- Use Replace Constructor with Factory Method on the subclasses.
- If any code refers to the subclasses, replace the reference with one to the superclass.
- Declare final fields for each constant method on the superclass.
- Declare a protected superclass constructor to initialize the fields.
- Add or modify subclass constructors to call the new superclass constructor.
- Compile and test.
- Implement each constant method in the superclass to return the field and remove the
method from the subclasses.
- Compile and test after each removal.
- When all the subclass methods have been removed, use Inline Method to inline the
constructor into the factory method of the superclass.
- Compile and test.
- Remove the subclass.
- Compile and test.
- Repeat inlining the constructor and elminating each subclass until they are all gone
