## Decompose Conditional
You have a complicated conditional (if-then-else)statement.
*Extract methods from the condition, then part, and else parts*

### Mechanics
- Extract the condition into its own method.
- Extract the then part and the else part into their own methods.

## Consolidate Conditional Expression
*Combine them into a single conditional expression and extract it*

### Motivation
- make the check clearer by showing that you are really making a single check
that's oring the other checks together.
- often set you up for *Extract Method*

### Mechanics
- Check that none of the conditional has side effects.
    - If there are side effects, you won't be able to do this refactoring.
- Replace the string of conditionals with a single conditional statement using logical
operators.
- Compile and test.
- Consider using *Extract Method* on the condition.

### Examples
If the routine I'm looking at tests only the condition and returns a value, I can turn the routine into
a single return statement using the ternary operator( ? : ).

## Consolidate Duplicate Conditional Fragments
The same fragment of code is in all branches of a conditional expression.
*Move it outside of the expression*

### Mechanics
- Identity code that is executed the same way regardless of the condition.
- If the common code is at the beginning, move it to before the conditional
- If the common code is at the end, move it to after the conditional
- If the common code is in the middle, look to see whether the code before or after it
changes anything. If it does, you can move the common code forward or backward to the
ends. You can then move it as described for code at the end or beginning.
- If there is more than a single statement, you should extract code into a method.

### Examples
The same situation can apply to exceptions. If code is repeated after an exception-causing
statement in the try block and all the catch blocks, I can move it to the final block.

## Remove Control Flag
You have a variable that is acting as a control flag for a series of boolean expressions.

*Use a break or return instead*

## Replace Nested Conditional with Guard Clauses
A method has conditional behavior that does not make clear the normal path of execution.

*Use guard clauses for all the special cases*

### Motivation
guard clause: If the condition is an unusual condition, check the condition and return
if the condition is true.

The key point about Replace Nested Conditional with Guard Clauses is one of emphasis.

### Mechanics
- For each check put in the guard clause.
    - The guard clause either returns, or throws an exception.
- Compile and test after each check is replaced with a guard clause.
    - If all guard clauses yield the same result, use Consolidate Conditional Expressions.

### Example: Reversing the Conditions

## Replace Conditional with Polymorphism

*Move each leg of the conditional to an overriding method in a subclass. Make the original method
abstract.*

- Replace Type Code with Subclasses
- Replace Type Code with State/Strategy

### Mechanics
- If the conditional statement is one part of a larger method, take apart the conditional
statement and use Extract method.
- If necessary use Move Method to place the conditional at the top of the inheritance
structure.
- Pick one of the subclasses. Create a subclass method that overrides the conditional
statement method. Copy the body of that leg of the conditional statement into the
subclass method and adjust it to fit.
    - You may need to make some private members of the superclass
protected in order to do this.
- Compile and test.
- Remove the copied leg of the conditional statement.
- Compile and test.
- Repeat with each leg of the conditional statement until all legs are turned into subclass
methods.
- Make the superclass method abstract.

## Introduce Null Object
You have repeated checks for a null value.

*Replace the null value with a null object.*

### Mechanics
- Create a subclass of the source class to act as a null version of the class. Create an
*isNull* operation on the source class and the null class. For the source class it should
return false, for the null class it should return true.
    - You may find it useful to create an explicitly nullable interface for the *isNull* method.
    - As an alternative you can use a testing interface to test for nullness.
- Compile
- Find all places that can give out a null when asked for a source object. Replace them to
give out a null object instead.
- Find all places that compare a variable of the source type with null and replace them with
a call *isNull*.
    - You may be able to do this by replacing on source and its clients
    at a time and compiling and testing between working on sources.
    - A few assertions that check for null in places where you should no
    logger see it can be useful.
- Compile and test
- Look for cases in which clients invoke an operation if not null and do some alternative
behavior if null.
- For each of these cases override the operation in the null class with the alternative
behavior.
- Remove the condition check for those that use the overriden behavior, compile, and test.

### Testing interface
```
interface Null {/* no methods defined */}

class NullCustomer extends Customer implements Null...

a Customer instanceof Null
```
### Other Special Cases
If there are several kinds of null, you can build separate classes for the different null
cases.

A special case class is a particular instance of a class with special behavior.

## Introduce Assertion
A section of code assumes something about the state of the program.

*Make the assumption explicit with an assertion.*

### Example
- In some circumstances the assertion helps find the bug, because it is closer to
where things went wrong. Mostly, however, the assertion helps to communicate
how the code works and what it assumes.
